doc/intro.rst, before:

Our objectives are to develop a standard model and data specification
through which the models in SENTINEL can be linked together, including
inputs and outputs, and to classify the models according to this
specification.

The primary purpose of the interface framework is to allow data to
flow between very different types of models, in a way that can be
automated. This is challenging because not only do different models
use different data formats, but also, metadata may or may not exist,
and conventions on units or variable naming differ between different
models and research communities.

.. figure:: ecosystem.png
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   An open ecosystem enabled by the data format, where different
   modelling frameworks can be interlinked, and a suit of independent
   software tools to work with data can be developed.

To address this, we develop a flexible data standard that can form the
glue between different models, allowing them to be used together, and
a user interface that makes it easier for modelling teams to actually
make use of this data format.  All software described here is
available as open source software under the version 2 of the `Apache
software license`_.

.. _`Apache software license`: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Commit message:

doc/intro.rst: update introdction to `sark`

doc/intro.rst, after:

Our objective is to develop a standard through which models in the
SENTINEL ecosystem can interact easily.  To that goal, out approach is
to build a framework that facilitates the flow of data between models
in a way that can be automated. This is challenging because different
models use different data formats, unit conventions, or variable
naming schemes, etc.

.. figure:: ecosystem.png
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   An open ecosystem enabled by the data format, where different
   modelling frameworks can be interlinked, and a suit of independent
   software tools to work with data can be developed.

To address this, we are developing a flexible data standard that can
be the common medium of exchange between different models, allowing
for sharing of results and linking.  The *SENTINEL archive* package,
or ``sark``, implements this framework.  It provides a Command Line
Interface to create and manage data archives (or packages) that can be
easily exchanged between different models in SENTINEL.  It also
provides a Python API to do the same operations and more from within a
computer program.  As the Python language has a very rich ecosystem of
tools for data analysis and visualisation, this opens the the door to
a very powerful analysis environment for collaborative research.  This
framework is available as open source software under the version 2 of
the `Apache software license`_.

.. _`Apache software license`: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
