Understanding the registry used by Friendly data
------------------------------------------------

Currently only tabular datasets are supported, so we will limit our
discussion to tabular datasets like tables with one or more columns
(including time series).  When working with tables it is common to
agree on a convention on how to identify rows uniquely.  Typically
this is done by designating a column (or a set of columns) as the
index (or primary key).  And like the index in a book, index entries
are required to be unique.  We follow the same principle here, and
categorise a column either as an index column, or a regular (value)
column.  Within the ``friendly_data`` framework we refer to them as
``idxcols`` and ``cols`` respectively.

.. figure:: _static/images/registry-flow-create.png
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Schematic representation of a data package, composed of multiple
   datasets, where metadata for various columns are taken from the
   registry.  *Note*: the last column in the last dataset is not
   present in the registry, denoting that it is possible to add
   columns not present in the registry.

While a table (dataset/data resource) in a data package can have any
number of columns, it is often helpful during analysis to designate an
index.  Friendly data implements this by having an external registry
that records all columns that are generally useful in the context of
energy models, and categorising these columns.  Some example columns
could be ``capacity_factor`` or energy storage capacity
(``storage_capacity``), or coordinates of a site or location, or
something much more generic like ``timestep`` indicating the timesteps
of a demand profile.  Among the aforementioned columns, ``timestep``
is the only index-column.

.. figure:: _static/images/registry-flow-update.png
   :width: 90%
   :align: center

   Updates to the registry undergoes a review process to gain
   consensus in the community.  This should limit duplication of
   effort, and over time formalise the terminology.

In the beginning the registry will be evolving with time, and proposal
for inclusion of new columns to suit your models, or renaming existing
columns, or any other relavant changes are welcome.  The goal is to
reach a consensus on conventions that suit most energy modellers.

Besides naming and classifying columns, the registry also has type
information; e.g. ``timestep`` is of type ``datetime`` (timestamp with
date), GPS coordinates are pairs of coordinates, so it would be a
fractional number (``number``), ``technology`` on the other hand is
the name of a technology, so they are strings.  The metadata can also
include constraints, e.g. ``capacity_factor`` is a ``number`` between
``0`` and ``1``, or ``technology`` can take one of a set of predefined
values.  Now you might notice that, while everyone will agree with the
constraint on ``capacity_factor``, the constraint on ``technology``
will be different for different models.  So this element is
configurable, and the Friendly data implementation infers the valid
set by sampling the dataset during package creation.

To review the current set of columns in the registry, please consult
the complete registry :ref:`documentation <registry>`.  Any changes or
additions can be suggested by opening a Pull Request (PR) in the
`Friendly data registry repository`_ on GitHub.

.. _`Friendly data registry repository`:
   https://github.com/sentinel-energy/sentinel-archive-registry

Column schema
+++++++++++++

The column schema can be specified either in YAML or JSON format.  The
general structure is a ``Mapping`` (set of key-value pairs).  Both forms are shown below.

JSON::

  {
    "name": "energy_eff",
    "type": "number",
    "format": "default",
    "constraints": {
        "minimum": 0,
        "maximum": 1
    }
  }

YAML::

  name: energy_eff
  type: number
  format: default
  constraints:
    minimum: 0
    maximum: 1

While only the ``name`` property is mandatory in the *frictionless*
specification, for SENTINEL archive we also expect the ``type``
property.  Constraints on the field can be specified by providing the
``constraints`` key.  It can take values like ``required``,
``maximum``, ``minimum``, ``enum``, etc; see the frictionless
documentation_ for details.

.. _documentation:
   https://specs.frictionlessdata.io/table-schema/#types-and-formats
